If a document has been misinterpreted and converted to a different encoding, it's broken. Trying to "repair" it may or may 
not be successful, usually it isn't. Any manual bit-shifting or other encoding voodoo is mostly that, voodoo. It's trying to 
fix the symptoms after the patient has already died.

So How To Handle Encodings Correctly?

It's really simple: Know what encoding a certain piece of text, that is, a certain byte sequence, is in, then interpret it 
with that encoding. That's all you need to do. If you're writing an app that allows the user to input some text, specify what
 encoding you accept from the user. For any sort of text field, the programmer can usually decide its encoding. For any sort 
of file a user may upload or import into a program, there needs to be a specification what encoding that file should be in.
 Alternatively, the user needs some way to tell the program what encoding the file is in. This information may be part of the
 file format itself, or it may be a selection the user has make (not that most users would usually know, unless they have read
 this article).
If a document has been misinterpreted and converted to a different encoding, it's broken. Trying to "repair" it may or may 
not be successful, usually it isn't. Any manual bit-shifting or other encoding voodoo is mostly that, voodoo. It's trying to 
fix the symptoms after the patient has already died.

So How To Handle Encodings Correctly?

It's really simple: Know what encoding a certain piece of text, that is, a certain byte sequence, is in, then interpret it 
with that encoding. That's all you need to do. If you're writing an app that allows the user to input some text, specify what
 encoding you accept from the user. For any sort of text field, the programmer can usually decide its encoding. For any sort 
of file a user may upload or import into a program, there needs to be a specification what encoding that file should be in.
 Alternatively, the user needs some way to tell the program what encoding the file is in. This information may be part of the
 file format itself, or it may be a selection the user has make (not that most users would usually know, unless they have read
 this article).
If a document has been misinterpreted and converted to a different encoding, it's broken. Trying to "repair" it may or may 
not be successful, usually it isn't. Any manual bit-shifting or other encoding voodoo is mostly that, voodoo. It's trying to 
fix the symptoms after the patient has already died.

So How To Handle Encodings Correctly?

It's really simple: Know what encoding a certain piece of text, that is, a certain byte sequence, is in, then interpret it 
with that encoding. That's all you need to do. If you're writing an app that allows the user to input some text, specify what
 encoding you accept from the user. For any sort of text field, the programmer can usually decide its encoding. For any sort 
of file a user may upload or import into a program, there needs to be a specification what encoding that file should be in.
 Alternatively, the user needs some way to tell the program what encoding the file is in. This information may be part of the
 file format itself, or it may be a selection the user has make (not that most users would usually know, unless they have read
 this article).If a document has been misinterpreted and converted to a different encoding, it's broken. Trying to "repair" it may or may 
not be successful, usually it isn't. Any manual bit-shifting or other encoding voodoo is mostly that, voodoo. It's trying to 
fix the symptoms after the patient has already died.

So How To Handle Encodings Correctly?

It's really simple: Know what encoding a certain piece of text, that is, a certain byte sequence, is in, then interpret it 
with that encoding. That's all you need to do. If you're writing an app that allows the user to input some text, specify what
 encoding you accept from the user. For any sort of text field, the programmer can usually decide its encoding. For any sort 
of file a user may upload or import into a program, there needs to be a specification what encoding that file should be in.
 Alternatively, the user needs some way to tell the program what encoding the file is in. This information may be part of the
 file format itself, or it may be a selection the user has make (not that most users would usually know, unless they have read
 this article).
If a document has been misinterpreted and converted to a different encoding, it's broken. Trying to "repair" it may or may 
not be successful, usually it isn't. Any manual bit-shifting or other encoding voodoo is mostly that, voodoo. It's trying to 
fix the symptoms after the patient has already died.

So How To Handle Encodings Correctly?

It's really simple: Know what encoding a certain piece of text, that is, a certain byte sequence, is in, then interpret it 
with that encoding. That's all you need to do. If you're writing an app that allows the user to input some text, specify what
 encoding you accept from the user. For any sort of text field, the programmer can usually decide its encoding. For any sort 
of file a user may upload or import into a program, there needs to be a specification what encoding that file should be in.
 Alternatively, the user needs some way to tell the program what encoding the file is in. This information may be part of the
 file format itself, or it may be a selection the user has make (not that most users would usually know, unless they have read
 this article).
If a document has been misinterpreted and converted to a different encoding, it's broken. Trying to "repair" it may or may 
not be successful, usually it isn't. Any manual bit-shifting or other encoding voodoo is mostly that, voodoo. It's trying to 
fix the symptoms after the patient has already died.

So How To Handle Encodings Correctly?

It's really simple: Know what encoding a certain piece of text, that is, a certain byte sequence, is in, then interpret it 
with that encoding. That's all you need to do. If you're writing an app that allows the user to input some text, specify what
 encoding you accept from the user. For any sort of text field, the programmer can usually decide its encoding. For any sort 
of file a user may upload or import into a program, there needs to be a specification what encoding that file should be in.
 Alternatively, the user needs some way to tell the program what encoding the file is in. This information may be part of the
 file format itself, or it may be a selection the user has make (not that most users would usually know, unless they have read
 this article).
If a document has been misinterpreted and converted to a different encoding, it's broken. Trying to "repair" it may or may 
not be successful, usually it isn't. Any manual bit-shifting or other encoding voodoo is mostly that, voodoo. It's trying to 
fix the symptoms after the patient has already died.

So How To Handle Encodings Correctly?

It's really simple: Know what encoding a certain piece of text, that is, a certain byte sequence, is in, then interpret it 
with that encoding. That's all you need to do. If you're writing an app that allows the user to input some text, specify what
 encoding you accept from the user. For any sort of text field, the programmer can usually decide its encoding. For any sort 
of file a user may upload or import into a program, there needs to be a specification what encoding that file should be in.
 Alternatively, the user needs some way to tell the program what encoding the file is in. This information may be part of the
 file format itself, or it may be a selection the user has make (not that most users would usually know, unless they have read
 this article).
If a document has been misinterpreted and converted to a different encoding, it's broken. Trying to "repair" it may or may 
not be successful, usually it isn't. Any manual bit-shifting or other encoding voodoo is mostly that, voodoo. It's trying to 
fix the symptoms after the patient has already died.

So How To Handle Encodings Correctly?

It's really simple: Know what encoding a certain piece of text, that is, a certain byte sequence, is in, then interpret it 
with that encoding. That's all you need to do. If you're writing an app that allows the user to input some text, specify what
 encoding you accept from the user. For any sort of text field, the programmer can usually decide its encoding. For any sort 
of file a user may upload or import into a program, there needs to be a specification what encoding that file should be in.
 Alternatively, the user needs some way to tell the program what encoding the file is in. This information may be part of the
 file format itself, or it may be a selection the user has make (not that most users would usually know, unless they have read
 this article).
If a document has been misinterpreted and converted to a different encoding, it's broken. Trying to "repair" it may or may 
not be successful, usually it isn't. Any manual bit-shifting or other encoding voodoo is mostly that, voodoo. It's trying to 
fix the symptoms after the patient has already died.

So How To Handle Encodings Correctly?

It's really simple: Know what encoding a certain piece of text, that is, a certain byte sequence, is in, then interpret it 
with that encoding. That's all you need to do. If you're writing an app that allows the user to input some text, specify what
 encoding you accept from the user. For any sort of text field, the programmer can usually decide its encoding. For any sort 
of file a user may upload or import into a program, there needs to be a specification what encoding that file should be in.
 Alternatively, the user needs some way to tell the program what encoding the file is in. This information may be part of the
 file format itself, or it may be a selection the user has make (not that most users would usually know, unless they have read
 this article).

